I am on Marylebone Road in London. The building behind me is now the Landmark Hotel,
but for many years this was the headquarters of British Rail:
the government organization that managed all railways in the country.
And apparently, in the 1970s, they also had ideas for space travel. Because they took a patent ...
a flying saucer.
I do not make a joke. This was not just a slightly derailed employee.
The patent speaks about the inventor, with the fantastic name Charles Osmond Frederick.
But it is registered under the company.
They have paid an agent to submit it for them.
There was more than a year between the first report and the final submission.
And it is detailed. It goes on and on how they will use lasers
to ignite material for nuclear fusion, then with magnetic fields to bend those particles
and use them as a drive.
I mean, physics is at best questionable and incredibly unrealistic.
Every now and then this is unearthed and shown because it is completely ridiculous and optimistic.
But: this patent has been granted.
Patent offices are terribly overloaded with years of overdue work.
For each submission one must search through the catalog to see that nobody else has already submitted something similar.
Researchers are not experts in the areas they are looking at;
they simply check whether an idea is original.
Look at the published patents: mainly large companies ...
who produce small variations on old ideas.
but sometimes you see a lone inventor applying for a patent from his garden shed
for a bizarre idea or an unrealistic dream.
And although it is the official policy of both the UK and the US Patent Office ...
to reject ridiculous ideas like a peretuum mobile,
you can apply for a patent for something that is not yet possible, but in the future perhaps.
And at the height of the space race, after we went from Sputnik to a man in 10 years,
Was it possible that British Rail would have a flotilla of flying saucers in the late 1990s?
Probably not, but that decision was not for the patent researcher.
Assuming you renew your patent regularly, you have up to 20 years to make a profit,
before it expires and everyone can make your invention.
That also happened with the flying saucer, so if any of you wants to make a spacecraft,
driven by a laser-controlled fusion reactor, then it is allowed. Northeast in Great Britain.
But let's be honest: that's never going to happen -
[Translation by Eric Spreen]